# Learn Java Servlet Step by Step

* IDE: IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition
* Download the code zip from github

## Step 1

* Open *File or Project* in the directory **java-servlets-ex01** in the IDE - - **pom.xml**
* Build
* Is the build successful?
* If no, stop and analyze and fix it first
* If yes, proceed to **Step 2**

## Step 2 - Do I understand the project/application directory structure?

* What are the directories?
* What are the files?

## Step 3 - Do I understand pom.xml?

* What are the dependencies?
* What is the java version?
  * Compiler Source version?
  * Compiler Target version?
* How the project is packaged?
* What is the final package name?

## Step 4 - Do I understand the Servlet Class?

* Class - `com.servletspractice.ex01.HelloworldServlet`

## Step 5 - Do I Understand index.jsp?

## Step 6 - Do I Understand web.xml?

## Step 7 - Can I package the project as war?

* How?
* From menu: **View->Tool Windows** - Open **maven**
* In the **maven window**, under **Lifecycle**, click on **package**
* The IDE runs the maven command: `mvn package`, which uses the **pom.xml**
* It packages as **war** file which is defined in pom.xml as below

```xml
 <!-- Package as a web archive file -->
    <packaging>war</packaging>
```

* The final filename will be **jsp-ex01** which is defined in pom.xml

```xml
    <build>
        <!--Final name of the jar/war file  -->
        <finalName>jsp-ex01</finalName>
    </build>
```

## Step 9 - Download and Install Apache tomcat and configure

## Step 10 - Run tomcat and verify the installation

## Step 11 - deploy the war file tomcat server

* Copy the **jsp-ex01.war** to **webapps** directory inside tomcat installation

## Step 12 - test the application using Browser

* Send request from browser to tomcat server -> open the link: <http://localhost:8080/jsp-ex01> - HTML served by tomcat sen
* end request from browser to tomcat server -> Open the link: <http://localhost:8080/jsp-ex01/helloworld> -> html generated by the Servlet class served by tomcat